[Music]
fifteen of August 1996 okay the very
first thing I see is this furry banana
which I bought on holiday with my family
20 year old aurelion is remembering a
specific day when he was just four years
old he claims to have a power that
scientists didn't believe humans should
possess anyone who's being able to do
what I do put simply aurelion is the
first British man to say that he doesn't
forget his past because I remember the
25th being the day where it snowed in
the morning and I think it was the day
that George best died
seventh of July 2008 it's a Monday it
just seems like there's just no gaps at
all I can just see it all around the
world other people have come forward
some claim to remember every day of
their life Bing Bing Bing Bing Bing if
you could stick a camera in my head then
I think everybody would freak out this
summer we met the people who say they
have this unbelievable ability and the
scientists putting them to the test
I always claim that actually this was
not possible because normal memory does
not work like that
could the amazing power they claim to
have possibly turn out to be real
I can tell within you know 30 seconds to
a minute if someone's genuine or not
number 13 a Monday because I just do sir
I don't want to answer that question can
you stop filming sorry aurelion is a
university student we first filmed with
him on Saturday the 19th of May
skeptical about his unbelievable talent
and curious to see how he could prove it
how could you demonstrate for me what it
is
the your memory does that maybe mine
doesn't
I suppose if someone said what happened
tell me something that happened in like
June 2008 and I I could instantly think
of things whereas most people would not
be even able to remember you know what
they were doing in that year what about
the 17th of you didn't even know yeah I
can tell you that was a Tuesday and it
was the first day after I finished my
GCSE exams and my room was an absolute
tip so I had to just clear it all out
and I spend the whole day doing that I
could tell you it was it quite a nice
day
we got Sonia and then we went for a
curry in the evening and I remember
watching the swimming with my mum and
Jennifer's got through and off for
swearing on life
yeah I checked the date of Joan Rivers
daytime television outburst he was right
it did occur on Tuesday the 17th of June
2008 aurelion said he couldn't tell me
how he did this but he let me come back
and test him on more random dates 19th
of September 2008 there's a Friday I
remember my dad was like selling his car
and I was the last time that we saw his
car before it were taken 30th of May
2007 it was a Wednesday the weather was
quite good that day but which was quite
unusual because it rained pretty much
for the whole of that me when you tell
me all this stuff yeah how am I supposed
to know it's right
how much opposed to know that you
remember the stuff you claimed it's true
but how do I know I suppose the thing is
you don't so I could be making up right
now but are you making it up no I don't
see why I would bother what do you think
about it I think it's so unusual mm-hmm
and I'm rather curious about how you're
doing it
[Music]
aurélien told me he remembered days way
back into his childhood but he had
absolutely no idea how they stuck in his
head I wanted his parents to confirm the
truth of his memories and see what they
thought of their son's strange skill we
were talking sometimes at the table when
we were having a meal and then we used I
used to say for instance or did you
remember when we went to Bangkok three
years ago or whatever
I used to say no it was not three years
ago it was four years ago and he was
actually on the blah blah blah you know
and he gave me the day the month and so
forth and I used to say really and then
I used to run to look in my diary to see
you know just to check and I think
that's why I started to think us you
know your memories walk around do you
remember what we did on the 30th of
August 2004
there's just of August 2004 I think that
I know it was a Monday bank holiday I
think it could be I knew that we went to
the Cadbury Factory around that I don't
know I don't know for certain that it
was that day that day I I know that it
was around that time yeah that's correct
that's exactly where we did we went at
Cadbury World we stopped in ross-on-wye
on the day and we had a great day it's
in chocolate and over the years we've
learned to sort of accept that if
everybody does say that there's a date
that's correct that after a couple of
years of saying I know you got that
wrong and realizing that he wasn't wrong
we tend to accept it now without
challenging it what's your explanation
for why your alien can do that because
he's just like he's right I don't know
because as I said to you before I it's
not something I you know I knew he had a
good memory but that was the extent of
it really I never knew he was you know
something really special and different
from most people it seemed or elion
memories were surprisingly accurate but
it was hard to know how much of his life
he'd got stored in his head
[Music]
so pick a month at random okay July 2009
the month I chose was three years ago
1080 days have passed since these events
took place
I brought a 20 of the days like that I
can remember all of those days I saw
there are three things that pop out
instantly when I think of July I went to
France when weekend tool in France Duke
of Edinburgh and driving lesson in fact
I can put that there and I think around
that time I started reading Tess of the
d'Urbervilles you know it's it's like I
could get a diary for 2009 and write if
I wanted to retrospectively
orillian said that his brain stored all
this information automatically but I
wondered if he was hiding some secret
technique we went to meet a man who has
trained his memory eight times world
memory champion Dominic O'Brien I would
be suspicious if someone said that they
automatically know what they were doing
on a specific day in their life the day
of the week for any date without
involving some sort of technique I can
tell within you know 30 seconds to a
minute if someone's genuine or not and
most of the time they're not able to do
what they claim no you must be or Elian
yes welcome hi kids
you come inside we'll share some
memories
aurelion says he has no technique to
help his extraordinary memory Dominic
O'Brien does and he can memorize
information at a world record-breaking
speed two hearts four diamonds the Jack
of Hearts Jack of Clubs similar clubs
in two gloves I've been sure to know
what you do obviously
so just idealist Legionnaire I begin I
mean the Jack of Diamonds could be
Johnny Depp right j-d Jack of Diamonds
the queen of clubs wherever that is
their way of cream puffs that could be
Paris Hilton tonight to go clubbing
she's the queen of nightclubs so now
when I see the cars I automatically see
people mental images are the key to
Dominic's remarkable memory and he has a
similar method to calculate dates
the first of June 2004
Tuesday I think Cairo Eve 3rd of October
2003 third of October I think that was a
Friday I remember my sister had a friend
over how about the 15th of April 2007
that was a Sunday and I went canoeing
that was since I was in Zambia and me
and my dad my sister went canoeing just
remember that is straightaway 10th of
August yeah 2007 okay there is point of
reference my nearest point of reference
is the 8th which was a Wednesday I'd
rather actually the 7th remember that
night I'd eaten way too much and I'd
threw up so for instance that I've know
instantly what the 8th of August are
using a reference point yeah that's
right so then I think Friday must have
been the 10th do you you're not making a
point of I must remember this day
because it's two days before my birthday
and lost remembers the future so you
don't review this now that is
fascinating yeah it is interesting
don't think I've never met somebody
quite like you without that's extruded
I mean I could do what you do if I made
a conscious effort to do it yeah but I
would have to review every day at the
end of the day and then think about it
the following day next week next month
etc until I've got it I think if it is
it's almost like this is imaginary pen
writing in events in a sort of mental
calendar so you're convinced are you I'm
99% sure or Elian is the genuine article
I don't think that people would meet me
in things like he's got something funny
yeah but we have no idea at all as soon
as you something said oh I've got this
thing I was like oh really
it seemed or Elian had only just started
to let other see his hidden talent I
just I'd left in there what what I don't
know what you think it's weird that I I
think it's weird that I can say a day
and you would know what day it was
yeah well do you remember when he
watched you a dinner what day was that
there are some things which are January
2006 so you lost it on a Thursday what
is it I'm really cool or really weird
weird I wasn't the only person trying to
make sense of all realms extraordinary
ability young masters of memory hairless
people who can recall exactly what
happened on every day of their lives
his boyfriend Henry had come across a
story of people with a suspiciously
similar skill so I just traveled to
remember what you had for breakfast
yesterday I said him where he did last
weekend yeah so there's a basically way
we read and then you watch the
documentary
[Music]
Jill price was the first person in the
world to come forward with disability
she's been living with it for almost
four decades I actually probably should
be like in a mental hospital because
this is makes me crazy like I still feel
bad about stuff that happened 30 years
ago but we all do and I mean we can all
remember one or two things is not one or
two things everything
I mean hers is very extreme she can
remember every single day as you get
older and you never like Nikki all
Daphne be able to remember more
possibly time will tell like how far
back you will be able to go hmm I mean
short of a lobotomy I don't really think
that there's anything that could be done
for me
Jill price seemed to be struggling with
a memory even more powerful tool or
elion maybe she had some explanation for
why he remembered so much
in the last year Jill hadn't granted a
single interview but she had agreed to
meet me we arranged to meet in a hotel
in Los Angeles on the morning of
Saturday the 24th of June could the
troubled mind of this 46 year old school
administrator hold the key to
understanding this mysterious skill is
there a way you can show me what it is
you can do know if you could stick a
camera in my head then I think everybody
would freak out like I can see my
memories you know starting in February
of 1980 until now it's like every day
every every day you can literally
remember every day mm-hmm it's made life
extremely emotionally difficult at times
well there's a lot of complex emotions
that go along with not being able to you
know forget because everything in
someone's life there's like a huge
there's a line but everything is
connected because you wouldn't be here
if this didn't happen and I always I'm
thinking about God if I had just not
done this then this wouldn't have
happened and then it's harder as your
life as years have gone by because
there's so much stuff you know everyone
has baggage I got a freaking steamer
trunk
that's just like that I'm just dragging
along I've suffered
few bouts of depression over the years
and no psychologist and no doctors were
able to give me any answers I mean I've
asked therapists I've asked uh believe
me it's not like I didn't talk about
this and want to know like you know well
why nobody had an answer for me so I
thought well go to a scientist the first
thing that popped up was dr. McGraw
dr. James L Magoo distinguished
professor of Neurobiology has spent his
career trying to understand how strong
memories are made
he's been carefully testing Joan's
memory for several years I found him on
June 5th 2000 which was a Monday and
then on June 12th he called me and we
set up a time to meet on June 24 it's
more than a decade since Joel's first
visit to the University but a
recollection of events can easily be
checked see what year did we want the
calendar for 2030 seven years dr.
mcgaubey sistent has kept a faithful
record of what he's done day by day and
you're looking for June mm-hmm yeah 24th
she was right about that June 24th no I
don't but it was some time later because
you met with her maybe another time on a
Saturday I think I think it was Saturday
July 8 you know how I know that because
there's written right here these are my
memories these are my memories are all
written down here and then I recall yes
I remember it well oh my son and my son
got married I'm the keeper of the book
not of the memories and then I went to
Stockholm I didn't know that
when they met dr. mcgaubey did to verify
Jill's memory so he asked about things
she may have seen in the news so I knew
how old she was so I had to find some
time so I just randomly said well let's
see what were the dates of the two OJ
Simpson verdicts October 3rd 1995 and
February 4th 1997 we had a Concord
playing radish July 5th and she was just
remarkably accurate the first question
he asked me was when the Iranian hostage
situation started and I told him and
then he told me I was wrong and I told
him I was right and that wasn't
back-and-forth and then we found out
that of course I was right how certain
were you you were right a hundred
percent
why because I just was same thing
happened when Diane Sawyer was
interviewing me on 20/20 and she asked
me when Princess Grace died September
14th 1982 went to a whole long thing it
was the first day of 12th grade it was
Tuesday September 14th that was the
first day I started 12th grade I went
into this whole long story and she looks
at me she goes now wait in September
10th 1980 cute and I'm like yeah and she
said no and I said yeah so September
10th well that night might not be right
I don't know but in in this in the room
you know where all the key with the
producers and everybody they're all
scrambling back their BlackBerry's
googling and then the door opens up and
the producer sticks his head out and he
screams the book is wrong what that is
always worked my crap maybe you should
check your facts first before you do
that because you look like a dumb
sorry don't you draw for me your your
representation of the years the months
and the days of the week
dr. Magoo was facing something no
scientist had ever seen before we know
almost nothing about the causes of
forgetting that's a big black hole in
scientific research we know an awful lot
about the conditions which create
memories we know very little about what
happens when people forget what was that
for is there some significance to the
the length of the line that you draw
across it's just how I see it why did
you draw those lines there just to show
that it didn't go all the way to there
kind of came down here so here the first
individual who is poor at forgetting a
Monday so I would just think of like
that and on a Monday how do you know
what's a Monday cuz I just do which is
really unusual really unusual so that
has to be motivating for a scientist we
said let's see what we can find out
about that that's all I care about as
long as you know somebody in the science
world took me seriously I was thrilled
with that you have no idea today dr.
Magoo is still trying to make sense of
Jill's ability and now his research
program has grown much larger than he
could ever have imagined
because after Jill appeared on worldwide
television incredibly ten other people
with disability appeared
I'm at 62 year old television producer
Bob Petrella who is letting the
scientists test him the last date is
March 5th March 5th was a Monday I've
got some spaghetti and I got some rice
and I got some vegetables but I didn't
get any gravy cheese a lot most people
don't understand it they think it's
photographic they think it's autistic
savant they think it's absolute they
think you remember everything well we
don't we don't remember every single
thing we make mistakes we forget where I
keys are where we parked our car like
anybody else but I think it's it's
fairly complete and what I was doing on
most days of my life all right
and that's all I have how do you do I
don't know how I do it it's just there
and it's been there you know since I was
young I knew it was a little unusual for
years and for them that but I didn't
know why I remembered like I did I
wasn't even sure how they said they
didn't know how they did it
dr. Magoo hadn't worked out how they did
it but there was another scientist who
thought that he could explain he met
Jill and wrote an article in Wired
magazine he said the truth was she was
obsessed with her past I don't think
that her memory is fundamentally
different from other people's I think
that in the same way that a child can be
very interested in baseball cards she's
interested in the facts of her own life
and she she thinks about whom she
reflects on them crap I don't give a
that it's in Wired magazine that
means nothing okay it's crap
we never claimed that she had a perfect
memory Joe price who seems to remember
everything she does not remember
everything
but she remember she doesn't forget
that's a difference many people have
been trying to make sense of Jill prices
memory but the first person to offer an
explanation and it wasn't well-received
I was I will just say that I was greatly
offended by his article and a lot of
people read that articles so a lot of
people are like you know this is who
they think this is what this is it is
just some stupid simplistic OCD of the
brain I had come across this article
before I traveled to America I went to
meet the author to learn how he thought
Jill remembered so much well I think
what drives Jill to have such a good
memory he's not so much this memory
circuits of her brain but the circuits
that drive her to want to remember
things and it's it's not a conscious
wanting it's it's like I'm a drug
addicts wanting they don't may not even
want the heroin per se but they just
they can't help it she's got a kind of
compulsion about memory and I think it's
that aspect of her personality if you
will that drives her to remember things
that there reflect on them
dr. Marcus drew attention to Jill's
50,000 pages of Diaries he believed she
was just obsessively thinking about her
past how much of this kind of subtle
rehearsing you would have to do in order
to have a strong memory of something
that happened 20 years ago strong and
readily readily available quickly
available well that's a nature of
science as you're skeptical if I wasn't
doing this I'd be skeptical I mean what
he did was totally minimized my life I
guess that's the whole thing about it
well that's what I'm saying I've had
it's it is your life it's my life and
I'm not I'm not like just a brain I have
a heart and I have a soul and there's a
lot of complex things that go along with
it so to make it so simplistic like that
totally offended me how didn't she speak
to him well he has do you don't need to
speak to him because he doesn't know me
and I find it interesting that
anybody would call him to ask about me
when he doesn't know me I suspected it
was dr. Marcus's article that had made
Jill reluctant to talk to the media but
could to be some truth in what he'd had
to say was there a link with obsessive
behavior it was something Bob Petrella
had talked about too you know I think
it's okay to have an obsession as long
as it's not a negative thing you know if
you're stalking a woman that's an
obsession obviously that's that's bad
Bob invited me to his home to see
something he created from memory in 1999
so because I was turning 50 the next
year and it was the end of the
millennium I thought I should choose
just for myself I should choose my most
memorable days of each date of the year
you know I didn't really hold back so
there's stuff about drugs sex and rock
is rolling and I just called it because
it's an acronym for my name and I called
it the book of Bob
b.o.b although it's not really a book
it's more of a journal like said today
is June 29th so it's June 29 1999 I'm
driving home and then I would just go
through all of the June 29 that I
remember in my life and then I would go
oh 65 68 71 73 73 I remember because I
was constipated and so I we were sitting
at a restaurant I hadn't I was visiting
and I hadn't gone for about four or five
days and we were sitting in a restaurant
and Richard Nixon was president at the
time and I could do his voice and and I
suddenly felt like I was able to go
after being constipated and I did it as
Nixon and I said it's time I think it's
time you know so that was June 29 73 it
was early in the morning I put live
where I did my rankings of the years you
know best year the worst year
five in 2004 are tied and then 2008 2009
the 2000s were pretty good
do you read with cataloguing of your
life like this is kind of a little bit
unusual vault
oh yeah definitely unusual but I think
that this is what people with like me do
they'd have a good memory cuz that's one
of the common things they say they
catalogue stuff Bob's behavior did seem
a little obsessive but remembering his
history was clearly something he enjoyed
I like having my memories you know I
mean nobody else is gonna remember my
life so why shouldn't I you know for
Jill I never met Joe but I know for her
that she is haunted by her memories and
you know there so I think it varies with
it with all of us it was certainly true
that Jill was troubled by her memories
and there was a limit to how much of her
life she was prepared to share
hi Jill
how you doing okay what about what about
driving could we do a little bit driving
with you
do you mind talking a bit while we drive
are the particular things that you're
happy to talk about I just tell them to
I have no problem talking about any of
this stuff I just don't really feel like
opening up my life you know that's I
don't need to do that I don't want to do
that but Jill had decided to bring
something to show me the very thing the
Wired magazine article had said was
evidence of obsession with her past yeah
now I don't really let people read these
this is my journal I've gotten in
arguments with people about wanting to
read my journal
like yeah that's not going to happen
it's got everything everything
everything everybody everything
it looks very densely written it is I
don't like line paper though I feel
constricted to the line paper so how
many things like this do you have Jill I
started writing in a journal in December
of 1976 and this is the day and then it
goes to the other side that's why I
wrote really small how often do you read
something like any of it I've only had
to like go back and get all these
because of you guys I don't I don't
reread these I don't need to I don't
want to I once it's down it's down and
done and it's you know it's put away
there's not possible to sit and memorize
I mean this is just like a smidge of
sure of what them kind of how many
journals I have and that would mean that
I would just be sitting and spending all
my days reading my journals and that's
the biggest bunch of that I've
ever heard in my life
it's I don't write this to remember I
write it so that I don't go crazy
[Music]
I left without an explanation of how
these people remembered but with an
understanding of how their ability could
complicate life
[Music]
when I returned to see aurelion I
wondered how similar he was to the
people I'd met he'd always said that his
ability to remember so much didn't
trouble him at all Oh God
that was I knew that was Mount Fuji day
that was on your birthday 2008 being
able to look at the photographs brings
back memories of the places we used to
go the things we used to do I place a
lot of importance on photos as well if
there's someone not taking photos of
something I instantly do it and I think
that a photo is the closest thing you
can get actually to sort of making a
memory into an object actually it's a
concrete memory I hear and it never goes
delaying it's um it's infallible or
iliyan had surprised me by remembering
the start dates of seven series of
television show Big Brother the fourth
series started on the 23rd of May 2003
which was a Friday the 5th Theory
started on the 28th of May 2004 which
was a Friday the 6th series started on
the 27th of May
Friday he even correctly recalled the
date individual contestants were evicted
from the house
on seventh year was a bit tear on the
14th Niki was evicted on the 21st Jane
was evicted could this be evidence of
some kind of obsession he didn't seem
happy
to be tested on it again the 27th of May
2005 I do anyone's you the big brother
thing sorry sir I don't want to answer
that question it's odd to communicate
that I can just remember these sorts of
things without even trying without them
having any importance I just I just
remember them I think that would be
alien to a lot of people I think it's
also it's also kind of a bit like when
you remember I don't know you remembered
so my great aunt Margaret's birthday
stuff like that and people might think
oh you're really weird remembering like
running people's birthdays or you're
really weird for remembering like what I
wore like are you kind of some kind of
stalker or something when like I said
it's just it's you don't choose to
remember it it just stays there yeah and
I think I think you sometimes you you
kind of have a warped opinion of what
people think of it I think it's unlike
with Big Brother you're worried that
people think it's weird like you have
you have some avid fan of it but it's
just it's it's complicated to put across
how you can remember something like that
even though it means nothing I think
that's you know people always think you
remember things which are important but
I think it's an example of where I
remember things which are completely
unimportant and have absolutely no value
at all but I just happen to remember
them
orillian seem to be interested in what
was different about his memory before I
met him he had contacted a memory
research team at the University of Hull
Julianna Matt Soni a professor of
psychology had been scouring Europe to
find someone with a raelians skill do
you remember anything about the 20th of
December 2009 yes it was a Sunday the
weather was quite good
it was quite windy it was for me a sort
of revelation that people can remember
the weather on a specific date it is
really really quite a remarkable thing
to observe you know especially for a
person like me who has a very poor
memory do you have an idea which day of
the week was the 27th 27th was Saturday
I always claimed that actually this was
not possible because normal memory does
not work like that I I think that I've
solved one question which is this real
and the answer is yes it is real the
questions that remain are how and why
professor Mazzoni had been preparing a
pioneering experiment that might unlock
the secrets of our elion mind it is this
exceptional cases that actually give the
first hint you know the first clue to
something that we don't know yet
something that really might change the
way we look about memory retrieval so so
it is really an exciting moment
[Music]
we traveled together to the professor's
homeland Italy
aurelion had an appointment at a
hospital where the professor had
assembled a trusted team they hope to
brain scan would reveal what happens
when aurelion is remembering and the
tests they were about to do was one that
had never been done before and I think
that we should be almost ready to go now
which is lovely which is exciting which
is exciting or aliens brain had never
been examined professor max Oni wanted
to see if he was different to everyone
else the very very clear picture of the
corpus callosum which is this part that
connects the two hemispheres of the
brain that's great the first scans
revealed the brain structure and how
well different areas are connected but
it was the second hour-long functional
scan that the American team hadn't yet
done
[Music]
we're close to the end of this run or
aliens brain activity was recorded as he
remembered what happened on a huge list
of dates and a second response and
immediately the other blue okay good
[Music]
now good what what what well look as
suggesting that we need to open a bottle
of Prosecco
congratulations marina you made it I'm
so glad so what came out from your brain
imaging data and in particular from the
functional data from the type of
activation that is was a current when
you we're retrieving the memory
initially okay is that you were using a
lot of visual areas so it is as if both
areas are particularly strong in you and
they really help your memory in the
first moments of retrieving a memory it
appears that all relyon uses areas of
the brain that the rest of us don't
there is something really extraordinary
in this data because we have been able
to see that orally and really accesses
memories very very quickly compared to
the average person as if the memories
are represented as a prepackaged fact
that so become accent becomes accessible
without much effort I really think that
this might tell us about potentials in
the brain that might not be exploited in
more in quotes average people it is
wonderful to to be able to be at that
moment in which things might change
there might be at this small revolution
and how I think my brain caused the
revolution
[Music]
the ultimate question is can we all be
trained in a way that that allow us to
to allows us to function luck or yen
[Music]
dr. McGauran his team have a group of
these people to study
they've been comparing how the structure
of their brains differ from ours but the
truth is that neither of these
scientists have yet made sense of this
extraordinary skill it's a very rare
ability so we're doing the Sherlock
Holmes detective work and it's the
answer is going to be complicated
we know brains of these people differ in
some ways from other people we know that
there's some brain regions that are
smaller some are larger and some are
different in shape that's something at
the beginning remember it's Sherlock
Holmes the mystery is not solved on page
one and we're still on page 123 after a
summer spent with these remarkable
people trying to find out the truth
there's one question that's constantly
played on my mind
suppose it was possible to have a memory
like this is it something the rest of us
would want
I feel like my memory has rolled my life
I feel like no matter how no matter what
my my memory has rolled my life it's
like I remember all the wards to really
think about remembering like 35 years
ago right now and and how you felt and
somehow or what someone said to you and
how that's never changed you know it can
be very very tormenting there's not one
day that I'm not like stressed out about
something or thinking about something
from 20 years ago that means absolutely
nothing today but still bothers me or
still upsets me or still pisses me off
and it's ridiculous but you know it's
like yesterday it really is it was as if
it was yesterday but I know you said
that you could remember every single
time we've met since we've been together
are you ever gonna get annoyed at me for
forgetting no I really it doesn't bother
me I you understand them soon as Latin
mortals
yeah it might be something I can get
quite jealous of because you know your
good days that we have to get elected a
for instance you'll remember forever
kind of thing whereas I'll kind of feel
slowly just it'll fade out of my memory
there's nothing negative about being
able to remember anything I do think
there is I think the more I think about
it more I think it's a really nice thing
to have and I think what's nice is that
now I know it's something special
I think I'll sort of value it more
y'all ever stop
hello yeah